# Data-Science-and-Knowledge-Discovery

This course taken in 2021 Fall semester has provided a hands-on introduction to the major techniques and solutions to discover knowledge in data and text. Fun fact: The digital tools we are using every day are creating data from everything we do at an unprecedented rate: every day, 2.5 quintillion (1018) bytes of data are created and 90% of the data in the world today was created within the past two years.

Data can be structured – generated by business applications – and unstructured – generated by the web, often as text. Data piles up quickly and compound annual data growth both threatens to bury today’s application infrastructure and provides a great opportunity to have insides on customers, processes, markets. Getting usable information from such a vast amount of data may require more than intuition. The intuition we use to make judgments is an excellent guide some of the time but gives a distorted view at other times. Creating views, extracting trends, define patterns, identify clusters is all something we need to manage large data. This mining process requires a combination of tools, ability to represent knowledge and domain-specific expertise. Several successful applications have been reported in areas such as credit rating, fraud detection, database marketing, customer relationship management, stock market investments, security. The field of data mining has evolved from the disciplines of statistics and artificial intelligence. (from EM 623 Course Description)


#### Final Project Presentation
https://stevens.zoom.us/rec/play/HlCBUMsp3KZW4-JwJnCCDTEfIGy2FckpUnmW0SrZeq09SNc5FUrVi4DFgsEli0vwZbi4FecZz_s0lCHJ.OoKzsbSZIcepQyfa?continueMode=true&_x_zm_rtaid=zaYcx5v2RmympEh-AU_hZQ.1654016397460.83ca653974c2b4a100265790da7d7ae7&_x_zm_rhtaid=567
scored 10.8 out of 10 pts possible and rated top 2nd presentation in class from peer evaluations
